
NO REVOLUTION CAN ACHIEVE VICTORY WITHOUT LOFTY HUMANE AND WELL-CONSIDERED IDEAS. - BAKUNIN

NOTHING LIVING AND FIRM CAN BE BUILT UPON JESUITICAL TRICKERY

"A MORALLY DEVELOPED INDIVIDUALITY MUST BE THE FOUNDATION OF EVERY ORGANIZATION." - KROPOTKIN

I  began to appreciate the difference between acting on the principle of command and discipline and acting on the principle of common understanding.

Far from ruthless competition what he found was mutual aid, carried on to an extent which made me suspect in it a feature of the greatest importance for the maintenacne of life, the preservation of each species, and its further evolution.

We are all one species- we should aid eachother where possible, for the benefit of our species.


First, the escape vehicle was prepared. For several weeks prior to the day of escape, every afternoon a striking droshky,[3] drawn by a beautiful black mare and driven by a coachman, visited the military hospital. It carried two aristocratic individuals, a man and a woman, who alighted, entered the building as if to enquire after a prisoner, and then returned and departed about fifteen minutes later. The man was Dr. Veimar, and the woman was a personal friend of Kropotkin. As the weeks passed, the guards grew accustomed to the presence of the handsome carriage and ceased to notice it.


Several of Kropotkin’s other friends rented a nearby flat in order to maintain a clear view of the escape route. If all were going well, (they told Kropotkin via secret notes carried by a friendly hospital worker), one of them would play violin music near the flat’s open window. If trouble was afoot, however, the music would cease and Kropotkin should be wary. When he was ready to attempt escape, he should signal them by entering the prison courtyard and removing his hat.

 First, Kropotkin’s colleagues hired all the taxis on the block in order to deprive the prison authorities of a means of speedy pursuit.


 Each individual is a producer of both manual and intellectual work; where each able-bodied human being is a worker, and where each worker works both in the field and the industrial workshop.

 Decentralization

 The real problem is underconsumption

Teach children to learn!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

EXPROPRIATION -> stealing

No putschissms, decried the shadowy intrigues of nechaev
For Kropotkin the ends and the means were inseparable

Spreading the ideas of anarchism

Don't care about war, take an antimilitarist stance

https://libcom.org/library/what-marx-should-have-said-kropotkin-adam-buick

Pa Chin

At times, he seemed quite unaware that men and women have been driven to irrational acts by personal neuroses and social myths, that they have alwats been prone to delusions and to urges of self destruction, so that now, in the nuclear age, they are threatened at last with extinction. 

He underrated the urge to power in many and the willingness of the mass of people to follow charismatic leaders.

Fundamentally, perhaps these are cultural problems: 
- urge to self destruct.
- urge to power
- urge to follow the charismatic
- urge to not treat personal neurosis
- urge to follow social myth


serfdom was eliminated only then the state increased its power at the expense of the feudal nobility

ignorance of the problem of coercion within small comms in general. 

John Stuart Mill, Friedman's love: 

"The question is, whether there would be any asylum left for individuality of character; whether public opinion would not be a tyrannical yoke, whether the absolute of each on all, and the surveillance of each by all, would not grind all down into a tame uniformity of thoughts, feelings, and actions." - John Stuart Mill

The perennial question of the relationship between the individual and society.

Without uprightness, without self-respect, without sympathy and mutual aid, human kind must perish, as perish the few races of animals living by rapine, or the slave-keeping ants. - Kropotkin

But maybe the solution can no longer be the secret society, the Jacobins, the Robespierre's, the mind control or the brainwashing.

American Anarchists
VM Eikhenbaum
Efim Yarchuk
Aaron and Fanny Baron
Boris Yelensky
William Shatoff
Emma Goldman (meh)
Alexander Berkman (failed to kill the asshat, Henry Clay Frick)
Gregory Maximoff
Abba Gordin
Mark Mratchny (died in NY in 1975)

Loved Longfellow and Bret Harte, Harriet Beecher Stowe's Uncle Tom's Cabin


Tucker's Liberty
Parson's Alarm
Most's Freiheit

Kropotkin's An Appeal to the Young

The Wife of Number 4,237

Joseph A Labadie

John H Edelmanm

Social democrats start from the centre- the state- and work toward the circumference, while we endeavor to work out the ideal society from the simple elements to the complex. 

Charles Eliot Norton: From Kropotkin: "A metaphysician is a blind man hunting in a dark room for a black hat which does not exist."

"Men who are elected office to do the fighting for the masses against the rule of the few are every time, or with insignificiantly few exceptions, bought over by the enemy, so that tosecure full liberty by the people for the people "

Demand will build the paths to a place, 

Should probably read Tolystoy ;)


Robert Ely, Prince Kropotkin and the widow of Ex-Confederate Prez Jefferson Davis, Booker T Washington

Yeah, DeLeon didn't exactly like Kropotkin

Big Bill Haywood

"Political Prisoner"
The warden was furious. "We have no political prisoners in a free country."
"But you have political grafters"

The anarchists believe in the trade unions 
work as a form of art and the importance of practical learning to suplement education from books


Parsons Spies, Lingg, Fischer, and Engel

Hull House

John Peter Altgeld

Altgeld and Taylor

What would the Americans say if McKinley had ordered the Harvard students to be sent to the Philippines? The country would certainly rise in indignationl that is what happened in Russia.


Holy Synod -? chief advisor to the tsar Konstaintin Pobedonostsev
McKinley was assasinated by Leon Czolgosz in 1901.

Hull House lost its backing!!!


In 1903 - Congress forbid anarchists to enter the country!

Revolution in 1917 frees Makhno from prison.

Assumed role in community afairs, elected chairman of the local union, recruited a band of armed peasants.

Makhno's activities came to a halt, Treaty of Brest Litovsk, German and Austrian troops marched into ukraine

met kropotkin, met lenin

Lenin had met with Makhno in Moscow, hoping to get him on the Bolsheviks side. he says the anarchists dream of the future, while bolshevisks think of the present. Makhno retorted it was the anarchists killing the nationalists and the white army.

Villagers provided food and fresh horses
Attack gentry, military garrisons, vanish quickly

Captured uniforms they inflitrated the enemy's ranks to learn their plans, or to open fire atp oint blank range

gained entry to a landowner's ball, and fell upon the guests.

when cornered, would bury weapons, make their way to their villages, do work in fields, protean.

an army of tachankas possesses undreamed of possibilities of maneuver.
Petliura


Concealed weapons in clothing, rode into the central railway, took the nationalists by surprise, and drove them out of the city. 

Fled to base- the nationalists took over city, and were then killed by Red Army.

Ourgith conscripted able bodied men. 

MRC (Military Revolutionary Council)

Four communes
Each commune was provided with as much land as its members were able to cultivate without hiring additional labor

Malcolm Menzies

Proudhons bank of the people

Usufruct and Mutual Banks



First world war made austrians leave ukraine, turned wrath on Ukranian nationalist 

The Makhnovists held a series of regional congresses of peasants, workers, and insurgetns

In May, 2 Cheka agents sent to assassinate Makhno were caught and executed

June 15, Fourth Regional Confress, nd invited the Red Army to send reps. Trotsky, CIC of the Red Army, was furious. Outlaws Makhno, banned congress.

Carried out a blitzekrieg, dissolved the communes, Denikin arrived later and finished the job

Typhys outbreak

Baron Wrangel attacked from the south
Red Army enlisted his aid, guaranteed the reelease of all anarchists in Russian prisons.


Proudhon was immensely important to the development of BANKS!

Liberty, not the daughter, but the mother of order

To be governed is to be kept in sight, inspected, spied upon, directed, law-driven, numbered, enrolled, indoctrinated, preached at, controlled, estimated, valued, censured, commanded, by creatures who have neither the right, nor the wisdom, nor the virtue to do so. To be governed is to be, at every operation, every transaction, noted, registered, enrolled, taxed, stamped, measured, numbered, assessed, licensed, authorized, admonished, forbidden, reformed, corrected, punished. It is under pretexrt of public utility, and in the name of the general interest, to be placed under contribution, trained, ransacked, exploited, monopolized, extorted, squeezed, mystified, robbed, then at the slightest resistance, the first word of complaint, to be repressed, fined, despised, harased, tracked, abused, clubbed, disarmed, choked, imprisoned, judged, condemned, shot, deported, sacrificed, sold, betrayed, and, to crown all, mocked, ridiculed, outraged, dishonored. That is government, that is its justice; that is its morality.

Proudhon on "The Bank of the People"

-> Proudon's Solution of the Social Prblem 

Greene's Mutual Banking

Dana's Proudhon and His 'Bank of the People'

Proudon's War and Peace

Vanzetti translated War and Peace while awaiting execution.

Rucker considered the work a really intelligent, forceful, and sympathetic expoisition of mutual banking.

Dana hated William Jennings Bryan, the free-silver candidate for president in the 1896 elections.

Translate Proudhon's works into games!!

Translate the work of the anarchists into games, films, movies, etc.,

Tucker did not do enough :(

He did translate and minspire a lot of people! but he was no book writer, he was no speaker :(

Laurence Labadie
Henry Bool

Instead of a Book

George MacDonald, a miserable isolationist to the nth degree


C.W Mowbray

Har Dayal

MPT Acharya

Free speech rally
Mowbray - "I feel confident that a few determined men-- and when I say determined I mean men who are prepared to do or die in the attempt -- could paralyze the forces of our masters provideing that they were acquainted with the power which nineteenth century civilization has placed  within our reach."

An agent Provocateur -> trying to get people in trouble to ruin their reputations, by inciting them to do something illegal

------------------------------------

Luigi Galleani
The Barre anarchist group - stone and marble cutters
Decentralization, It goes forward
stirnerite insurgency with kropotkin's principle of mutual aid

extolled the virtues of spontaneity and variety, of autonomy and independence, of self determiniation and direction action, in a world of increasing standardization and uniformity

Against the War, against the peace, for the social revolution

Contro la guerra, contro la pace, per la rivoluzione sociale
Remained under the surveillance of the police, seldom left his door and followed him even on his solitary walks in the surrounding countryside.

The shoe workers of Lynn, the construction workers of Boston, the cigar workers of Philly and Tampa, there were numerous miners in Penn and Illinois, in Chicago and detroit, in San fran and la, barber and tailor to bricklayer and machinist

ancom, ansyndicalist, anindividualist, anarchist

Ancom - rejected state and private ownership 

anarchosyndicalist - Carlo Tresca, placed faith in the trade union movement, shunned by ancom, who feared the emergence of a boss endowed with special priveleges and authority. 

anarchoindividualist -suspiciouso f both the communal arrangmeents of the anarchist coms and the labor orgs of the anarcho synd, relies on the actions of autonomous indivs, (Nihil and cogirot, ergo sum) Max Stirner [Anarcho -Egoism] The Ego and His Own

Anarchists without adjectives - not comanarchists or syndarchs, or indarcs, Malatesta, who preached an undogmatic brand of anarchism that encompassed a range fo elements

The Italian anrchists didn't trust the hierarchical and authoritarian structure of the union- 
contended with strikes and demonstrations

Aldino Felicani - treasurer of the sacco-vanzetti defense committee

Hardly a week went by that there was not some traditional social activity with a radical twist, a picnic at Mrs. Bresci's restaurant. Picnics were important occasions, not merely to eat and drink and dance, but also to collect $ for the movement

NY and NJ anarchists made excursions up the Hudson in  rented steamboats, and when they reached rural, out came the bread and wine, the accordions and mandolins, followed invariably by the collection

Gori - the first of may

Modern school vs. the parochial school vs. the public school 

The modern schools were schools in which children would learn about working class movements and revolutions, as well as how to think and live according to their own lights and in harmoney with their neighbors

Both were sunday and evening schools, attended by adults and children alike

Instead of Christmas or Easter or Thanksviging ,the anarchists celebrated the anniversary of the Paris Commune on March 18th, May 1 (The day of working class solidariy), the anniversary of the Haymarket executions on Nov 11.

The Pioneers of Libery in NY
founded by rank and file workers
soon joined however by vrilliant constellation of writers and speakers-- who made the group one of the most remarkable in the history of the anarchistd.

Workers' education clubs
Knights of Liberty 

Soltaroff and Lewis

Edelstadt and Katz

Johann Most

Every church was an ally of the state in the subjugation of humankind spirtitually as well as politically and economically
Most - the God Pestilence

Each year, in 1889, the pioneers of liberty published a 4 page antireligious journal on Yom Kippur, the most sacred of Jewish holidays, Benjamin Feigenbaum;s Passover Hadadah According to a New Version

<3 Benjamin Feigenbaum <3

Specialized in satirising and winding up religious leaders. He knew his way around the bible thoroughly. Many readers recognized t

Turned idioms on their heads to encourage revolt in general, but also specifically against overbearing conservative minded religious authorities. 

Di Sotsialistishe Hagode shel Pesakh 1888

His version combined a parody of religion and ritual with serious commentary about contemporary struggles, and a call to arms.

Repentance, prayer and charity will avert the evil decree. --> Brutality, rebellion, and force will avert the evil decree. 

The Lord reigns forever and ever -> Mammon reigns- but not forever!

What is god? … an abstract word coined to designate the hidden forces of nature, while the belief in God is but a mechanical habit of childhood, a prejudice handed down from father to children

‘If there is a God and if he is Almighty as the clergy claims he is, I give him just two minutes’ time to kill me on the spot, so that he may prove his existence!’ Two minutes passed, Feigenbaum exclaimed: ‘See! There is no God!’ The band struck up a revolutionary song. Then he announced a Yom Kippur ball – where pork was to be eaten.”



In subsequent years, others followed in Feigenbaum’s footsteps. Saul Yanovsky who ended up in New York too, also gave Yom Kippur lectures at the anarchist-inspired International Workers’ Education Clubs. In one, Yanovsky identified other hands writing  and editing the “Book of Life”:

“It is not the Supreme God who determines the kind of year you should have. It is a different god, an earthly one and his name is Mammon… He writes down that before the year is over… there will be widows and orphans swollen with hunger, cast out, barefoot and naked into the cold dark streets.”

The Birth of the false Messiah, the Brooklyn Labor Lyceum


"Are religion and socialism compatible?"
The Orthodox speaker went first, but when the anarchist, Dr. Michael Cohn, rose, the audience grew agitated, someone shouted "Fire!" and the meeting broke up amid confusion. -> sjout fire in a crowded theatre. 

The Yom Kippur balls, in the end, proved counterproductive, alienating not only the more piious Jews, whose religious sensibilities were outraged, but also their less observant brethren, for whom the impious fests of the anarchists were a senseless mockery.

Over and over they underscored the futility of the ballot and the need for armed insurrection to overthrow the established order. 

To rely on gradual reform-- one creformist gibberish as they put it, 

Yanovsky was beaten --> Fraye Arbeter Shtime raided by the mob

The pogroms in 1903 and 1906 had a sobering effect, turning more than a few Jewish anarchists back


Rocker: "the old slogan, the worse the better, was baed on an erroneus assumption. Like that other slogan "all or nothing", which many radicals opponse any involvement in the lot of the workers, even when the workers demanded it, on the ground that it would distract the mind of the proletariat, and turn it away frmo the road which leads to social emancipation. 

It is not surprising that the anarchists should have taken an active part in the workmens circle, the socialist oriented jewish fraternal order int he united states and canada

emphasis on life insurance, sickness and accident benedits, burial plots, and educational and cultural programs

Cooperatives of the, 

Di Abend Tsatyung
Der Anarkhist
Behind the Bars
Broyt un Frayhayt
Fraye Arbeter Shtime

Children as well as adults devoured Darwin, Spencer and other famous scientists and writers. "Think of it!" Herbert Spencer preferred to fairy story for boys and girls.

Homogeneity is unstable because force is unstable and variable. 

Law of Multiplicity of Effects - Heterogeneous consequences grow exponentially, forever accelerating the tempo of homogentiy evolving into heterogeneity. 

As these aggregates become increasingly differentiated, their components become increasingly dissimilar, speeding up the entire process, and making the universe heterogeneous without end until equilibrium occurs. 

Societies were not only becoming increadingly complex, heterogeneous and cohesive. There were becoming additionally interdependent and thier components, more specialized and individuate.d 

1. Primitive societies casual political cooperation
2. militant socieities characterized by rigid hierarchical political control
3. industrial societies where centralized political hegemony collapses giving way to minimially regulated markets
4. spontaneously, slef regulating, market utopias in which govt withers away. 

Overpopulation causing violent conflicts between social groups fuels this cycle of consolidation and reversal to which no society is immune.

As embryonic kinship groups grow more numerous, they come to be everywhere in one another's way. 

The mroe these primal socieites crowd eacho ther, the more externally violent and militant they become. 

Stability -> the division of labor and commerce

socieities prizing individ freedom and basic rights where the state recedes to protecting citizens against force and fraud at home and aggression from abroad. 

He argued that the individual had a right to ignore the state.

Spencer hated patriotism

When men hire themselves out to shoot other men to order, asking nothing about the justice of their cause, I don't care if they are shot themselves.

Fuck social reformism -> paternalist social legislation,

Spencer missed the ball on the transitions of civs between states

He was a radical feminist, opposed private ownership of land, and advocated the use of trade unionists against exploitation by bossses, and favoured an economy organized by free worker coops 

Social Statics (1850) - argued that imperialism had served civilization by clearing the inferior races
The forces which are working out the great scheme of perfect happiness, taking no account of incidental suffering, exterminate such sections of mankind as stand in their way. … Be he human or be he brute — the hindrance must be got rid of.



In 1998, Land resigned from Warwick too. He and half a dozen CCRU members withdrew to the room above the Leamington Spa Body Shop. There they drifted from accelerationism into a vortex of more old-fashioned esoteric ideas, drawn from the occult, numerology, the fathomless novels of the American horror writer HP Lovecraft, and the life of the English mystic Aleister Crowley, who had been born in Leamington, in a cavernous terraced house which several CCRU members moved into.

Advertisement

“The CCRU became quasi-cultish, quasi-religious,” says Mackay. “I left before it descended into sheer madness.” Two of the unit’s key texts had always been the Joseph Conrad novel Heart of Darkness and its film adaptation, Apocalypse Now, which made collecting followers and withdrawing from the world and from conventional sanity seem lethally glamorous. In their top-floor room, Land and his students drew occult diagrams on the walls. Grant says a “punishing regime” of too much thinking and drinking drove several members into mental and physical crises. Land himself, after what he later described as “perhaps a year of fanatical abuse” of “the sacred substance amphetamine”, and “prolonged artificial insomnia ... devoted to futile ‘writing’ practices”, suffered a breakdown in the early 2000s, and disappeared from public view.

“The CCRU just vanished,” says Brassier. “And a lot of people – not including me – thought, ‘Good riddance.’”

--> Evola loved the alchemical, the magical, the fascists love spiritualism. The drugs of today, are the spiritualism of yesterday. FUCK RELIGION, FUCK MAGIC, FUCK BELIEF, Holy shit, it all leads to fascism!!!

Should not have jumped to the front for the "worker's milenium"- should've stayed in the US and fought the good fight here...

the anarchists became more pragmatic, keeping the communists out of the unions, which resulted in their enmeshing in the union hierarchy.

Jewish anarchism voted for roosevelt, and lost its identity as a revolutionary, anti-establishment movement.

The concerns of the Jewish anarchists durign the 20s and 30s were not very difft from the socialists and liberals.

- the growth of the bolsheviks, rise of mussolini and hitler, the martyrdom of sacco and vanzetti, and the overriding questions of violence, revolution, and war. 

Rocker admitted kropotkin was right about militarism - we have to destroy the fascists, wherever they arise!

gone was the dreamer, the agitator, the free thinker, and the missionary of yesterday

Alex Berkman:

His older brother, who sympathized with the revolutionaries, came to his bedside and thrilled him with mysterious, awe inspiring words: Will of the People - tyrant removed - Free Russia.

Uncle Maxim -> Mark Natanson

"Deported by god" was Berkman's comment when he learned frick was dead.

The slogans of the Revolution are forsworn, its ideals stifled in the blood of the people. the breath of yesterday is dooming millions to death; the shdow of today hangs like a black pall over the country. 

An ABCS of Anarchism

Fuck the cartels, the organizations that relegate places to slavery, authoritative mirrors of the industrial working sector. 

You: yes, we mean YOU, the people of America! The Russian Revolution calls to the workers of the world for help. The Russian Revolution cries: 'WORKERS OF THE WORLD! AWAKE! RISE! PUT DOWN YOUR ENEMY AND MINE! Yes, friends, there is only one enemy of the workers of the world, and that is CAPITALISM.'

Wtf was Steimer thinking. 

The police notified the American military intelligence, sent two army seargants, encountered Hyman Rosansky, a recent recruit, Rosansky admitted his involvement, turned informer, and implicated the rest of his comrades.

The Sedition Act -> The Abrams Case

Judge Henry DeLamar Clayton

Was another Gary or Thayer

Free-love, mocked and humiliated

- "You keep talking about producers, now may i ask why you don't go out and some producing? There is plenty of untilled land needing attention in this country."

"Our Lord is not on trial here. You are."

"Do you mean to refer to the fathers of this nation as your forefathers? Well, I guess we can leave that out too, for Washington and the others are not on trial here."

Weinberger, tried to show tha tthe Sedition Act was meant to penalize activities which hindered American conduct of the war, and that since American intervention was 

"(Count i) any disloyal, ... scurrilous, or abusive language about
 the form of government of the United States,...
 " (Count 2) or any language intended to bring the form of govern-
 ment of the United States . . . into contempt, scorn, contumely, or
 disrepute, . . .
 " (Count 3) or . . . any language intended to incite, provoke, or en-
 courage resistance to the United States [in said war with the German
 Imperial Government], . . .
 " (Count 4) or shall willfully by utterance, writing, printing, publica-
 tion, . . . urge, incite, or advocate any curtailment of production in
 this country of any thing or things, product or products [to wit, ordnance
 and ammunition] necessary or essential to the prosecution of the war in
 which the United States may be engaged, [to wit, said war with the
 Imperial German Government], with intent by such curtailment to
 cripple or hinder the United States in the prosecution of the war, . . .
 "shall be punished by a fine of not more than twenty years or both.


  "Now the charge in this case is, in its very nature, that these defend-
 ants, by what they have done, conspired to go and incite a revolt; in
 fact, one of the very papers is signed 'Revolutionists,' and it was for the
 purpose of avoiding - a purpose expressed in the paper itself - the
 purposes of the Government and raising a state of public opinion in this
 country of hostility to the Government of the United States, so as to
 prevent the Government from carrying on its operations and prevent
 the Government from recognizing that faction of the Government of
  Russia, which the Government has recognized, and to force the Gov-
 ernment of the United States to recognize that faction of the Govern-
 ment in Russia to which these people were friendly.
 "Now, they cannot do that. No men can do that, and that is the
 theory that I have of this case, and we might as well have it out in the
 beginning."

  "'The President, you thought, and all that he was doing ought to be
 stopped and broken up?' 'I thought when I know he is elected by the
 people they should protest against intervention. . . I did not want
 to break up. I called for a protest, which as I understand it, from
 my knowledge of the Constitution, the people of America had a right to
 protest.'
 "'Did you not intend to incite or provoke or encourage resistance to
 the Government of the United States?' 'Not to the Government -
 never did.'
 "'Who was acting for the Government if the President was not?' 'I
 thought it was the Congress and Senate that was supposed to represent
 the people of America.'
 "'The President is the executive head . . . You intended to incite
 opposition to what the President did?' 'I did not. I intended to en-
 lighten the people about the subject, for, as I stated, the papers were
 afraid to state it, and I thought it was the right time.'

  The Government acts through the President, and you in-
 tended to incite opposition to what he was doing?' 'I intended to incite
 opposition to every wrong act I understood to be wrong.'
 "'You had the specific intention to make public opinion

Suppose we eliminate Mr. Rockefeller.
 He is not on trial. However, I will say that it is quite true that Mr.
 Rockefeller is a man of considerable wealth and he has done a great
 deal of good. He has eliminated the hookworm, which was the curse
 of childhood in large sections of our country; he has established and
 maintained a great research hospital, and in other ways used his wealth
 to better the condition of his fellows. We will now proceed with the
 case.'


  "I am not going to permit anybody to start anything to-day.... There
 will be no propaganda started in this court, the purpose of which is to
 give aid and comfort to soap-box orators and to such as these miserable
 defendants who stand convicted before the bar of justice. . . . You
 don't know anything about democracy, and the only thing you un-
 derstand is the hellishness of anarchy....
 "These defendants took the stand. They talked about capitalists and
 producers, and I tried to figure out what a capitalist and what a pro-
 ducer is as contemplated by them. After listening carefully to all they
 had to say, I came to the conclusion that a capitalist is a man with a
 decent suit of clothes, a minimum of $I.25 in his pocket, and a good
 character.
 "And when I tried to find out what the prisoners had produced, I
 was unable to find out anything at all. So far as I can learn, not one of them ever produced so much as a single potato.40 The only thing they
 know how to raise is hell, and to direct it against the government of the United States....
 "But we are not going to help carry out the plans mapped out by
 the Imperial German Government, and which are being carried out by
 Lenine and Trotsky. I have heard of the reported fate of the poor little daughters of the Czar, but I won't talk about that now. I might get
 mad. I will now sentence the prisoners."

Men must be held to have intended, and to be accountable for, the effects which their acts were likely to produce.

Upton Sinclair said thta Clayton had been imported from Alabama to make Hester Street safe for democracy.

Molline Steimer: 
"By anarchism, I understand a new social order, where no group of people shall be governed by another group of people. Individual freedom shall prevail in the full sense of the word. Private ownership shall be abolished. Every person shall have an equal opportunity to develop himself well, mentally and physically. "

Zechariah Chafee 

Is Opinion a Crime?

All 4 were released on bail

Steimer immediately resumed her radical activities

Important, fundamental to the belief of the 3 percenters, could be easily remedied: "Never heard of a situation where people are ocmmanded to convert."


The Organizational Platform contained the seeds of authoritarianism

The entire spirit of the platform is penetrated with the idea that the masses must be politically led during the revolution. This is where the evil starts, all the rest... is mainly based on this line. For a party, for an army, for a system of denfense of the revolution which will inevitably lead to the creation of a spying system, investigators, prisons, and judges, consequently, a TCHEKA.

Pacific Street Collective of NY


The Paris Commune of 1871
The greatest urban insurrection of the 19th century, it made anarchists of Kropotkin and Errico Malatesta and launched anarchist movements throughout the European continent.


It showed how a war can trigger the outbreak of social rebellion- for it was the defeat at Sedan. 

Where the Communards were massacred.

Had the Commanards seized the initative and marched on Versailles, the outcome might have been different. Altho the majority held back for fearo f provoking a civil war, some activists (the Blanquists) 

The defensive is the death of every armed rising. 
If they are defeated, only their 'good nature' will be to blame.

Tenacious parochialism
Its proliferation of sections and clubs
Its sans-culotte ideology
Its committee of Public Safety
Its slogans of Liberty Equality and Fraternity
The Declaration of the Rights of Man

Rejection of centralized authority
Its experiments in women's rights and workers' control




Only after it was underway did Marx throw his support behind it 
st

What the fuck was this fucking thing?

It exhibited both centralist and federalist, both authoritarian and libertarian.

Bakuninists and Marxists, Proudhonists and Blanquists, Republicans and Jacobins all played a part. Leftist unity!!

Decentralist and libertarian. Its tactics were those of improvisation and direct action. The ideal society remained a direct democracy of councils, clubs, and communes, an anti-authoritarian commonwealth in which workers, artisans, and peasants might live in peace and contentment, with full economic and political liberty organized from below.

The commune est local control over economic, educational and cultural as well as political and military affairs

Expropriated the clergy and converted the Churches into social forums.

Abolished the police and the army, assigning their duties to ordinary citizens. 

Made public offices elective and limited their salaries to worker's wages. 

Rents were suspended, and the payment of debts spread out.

Free Schools were opend, and an artist's council established. 

Fines were abolished in factories. Night work was abolished in barkeries. The ten hour day was introduced in some shops. 

The Commune showed that ordinary workers were capable of running their own affairs. 
The stonecutters inaugurated a program of insurance.. 

Unemployed set up cooperative workshops.
Trade unions and factory councils sprang up in every district. 
Factories abandoned by their owners were converted to cooperatives. 

"free producer's cooperatives which would run industry and share the profits"

Varlin was capt by the Versailles troops, tortured, mutilated, and shot. 

Varlin:: "The coming rev must free the workers radically from all forms of capitalism or political exploitation and establish all social relationships on the basis of the principle of justice."

"They were madmen," said the painter Renoir, "But they had in them that little flame that never dies."

"History," declared Marx, "has no comparable example of such greatness."

anti-semitism, anti-intellectualism

Action Francaise 

Leaders voted higher wages for themselves

The Committee of Public Safetry was est and censored press

The priests were taken out and shot.

General Gallifet, the take no prisoners of the Mexican war.
25K butchered, 5K deported, 50K arrested, 14K imprisoned.

3K died in the forts nad prisons, mass shootings, 147 were shot at the Mur des Federes

A cry of protest escape any throat, the house was invaded, its inhabitatnts diven out, lined against the walls, and shot where they stoof. 

Started in Lyons in Sept 1970
risings in  Marseilles, Toulouse, Narbonnne, Cette, Perpignan, Limoges, Saint Etienne, Le Creusot


The Admin and governmental machinery is abolished
All criminal and civil courts are suspsneded and replaced by the People's Justice
Payment of taxes and mortgages are suspended. Taxes are to be replaced by contributions that federated communes will have collected by levies upon the wealthy classes,
Since the state has been been abolished, no more debts
All existing municipal admin bodies are hereby abolished.

The 1968 Paris revolts, the Shanghai Commune of 1967

with artisan and peasant economies, and strong regionalist traditions. 

decentralist, federalist, and libertarian, directed against authoritarian and oligarchical regimes.

Communalist tradition

Kronstadt

Some defeats are really victories, while some victories are more shameful than any defeats. - Karl Liebknecht before his death

Paul Brousse

Brousse opposed the general strike as a revolutionary weapon

The brutality of mere numbers.

Brousse believed in piecemeal reform
- the ideal should be divided into several practical stafesl our aims should, as it were, be immediatised so as to render them possivle.

- Possibilist party
- lol at the end of Brousse.

- a liberal who conceded - "He removed anarchy from anarchism, but retained the phrases and tactics." - Engels

Approbed the entry of Millerang into the French gov, on the ground that the "safety of the Republic is the Supreme Law"

Gustav Landauer - Murder in Munich

Oscar Wilde's The Soul of Man Under Socialism
Landauers Socialist Bund

Arts and Crafts movement of Ruskin and Morris
Garden City movement of Geddes and Howard 

Opposed the emergence of Germany as a centralized military power.
He opposed the centralized and statist version of socialism embodied in the German Social Democratic partyu. 

- what we fight is bureaucracy, we advocate for free association and union, the absence of authority, mind freed from all fetters, independence and well-being of all.


Ptoudhon's mutualism: the notion of a People's Bank that would enable the producer to obtain cheap credit as well as facilitate the fair exchange of products

Socialism was the discovery and development of something already present and growing, building the new society within the shell of the old.

Step outside capitalism and begin to be human beings. 

He conceived of revolution as the peaceful and gradual creation of a counterculture

drop out

"rebirth of the human spirit"

"The state is a condition, a certain relationship between human beings, a mode of human behavior; we destroy it by contracting other relationships, by behaving differently."

His; "War is an act of power, of murder, of robbery. It is the sharpest and clearest expression of the state"
Randolph Bourne: "War is the health of the state"
 Israeli communitarian
 Landauer pressed for the decentralized society of free cooperatives and communities with local control and workers self management from below. 

 Ret Marut -> B. Traven (Treasure of the Sierra Madre, The Death Ship)

 Put into place as minister of education

 Apart from Argentina, Brazil has produced the largest anarchist movement in L.A

 Polinice Mattei

High white collars, dark neckties, and frock coats

 Oreste Ristori

Malatesta worked on Umanita Nova

Everado Dias
Association of Free Thought

Florentino de Caravalko

Paulo Berthelot

Edgard Leuneroth

Fabio Luz

Jose Oiticica

JW "Chummy" Fleming

He erected a platform, which he would use for 60 uears, he spoke under a tall elm tree on a rostrum of stone and earth, from the tree hung a bright red banner inscribed with the worth anarchy. no god, no authority. a table filled with anarchist boooks. fleming would ring a lil bell.

he spoke in a soft, gentle voice, in measured byt impassioned tones, rising to anger, only when dwelling on the iniquity of parasite classes, autocrats, and humbug

futility of parliamentary politics and piecemeal reform

he pinned his hopes on direct action

a generation of inborn sergs, made between sleeping and waking, are trampling the liberties our fathers gave to us, liberties soaked with their red, warm blood.

I am in the company of Tolstoy, Spencer, and the most advanced thinkers of the world! Workers will never get their rights while they look to parliament. We have been hanged in Chicago, electrocuted in New York, guillotined in Paris, and strangled in Italy, and I will go with my comrades. I am opposed to your government and yout authority. Down with them. Do your best. Long live Anarchy!

Voltaire - the world is full of fools, and he would leave the world as wicked and foolish as he found it.




Neno Vasco



THE DICTATOR NOVEL (NOVELA DEL DICTADOR)

Ishutin circle-
 Hell
 Every member of hell considered himself a doomed man

 The Duties of the Revolutionary toward Himself
1. The revolutionary is a doomed man. He has no personal interests, no business affairs, no emotions, no attachments, no property, and no name. Everything in him is wholly absorbed in the single thought and the single passion for revolution.

2. The revolutionary knows that in the very depths of his being, not only in words but also in deeds, he has broken all the bonds which tie him to the social order and the civilized world with all its laws, moralities, and customs, and with all its generally accepted conventions. He is their implacable enemy, and if he continues to live with them it is only in order to destroy them more speedily.

3. The revolutionary despises all doctrines and refuses to accept the mundane sciences, leaving them for future generations. He knows only one science: the science of destruction. For this reason, but only for this reason, he will study mechanics, physics, chemistry, and perhaps medicine. But all day and all night he studies the vital science of human beings, their characteristics and circumstances, and all the phenomena of the present social order. The object is perpetually the same: the surest and quickest way of destroying the whole filthy order.

4. The revolutionary despises public opinion. He despises and hates the existing social morality in all its manifestations. For him, morality is everything which contributes to the triumph of the revolution. Immoral and criminal is everything that stands in its way.

5. The revolutionary is a dedicated man, merciless toward the State and toward the educated classes; and he can expect no mercy from them. Between him and them there exists, declared or concealed, a relentless and irreconcilable war to the death. He must accustom himself to torture.

6. Tyrannical toward himself, he must be tyrannical toward others. All the gentle and enervating sentiments of kinship, love, friendship, gratitude, and even honor, must be suppressed in him and give place to the cold and single-minded passion for revolution. For him, there exists only one pleasure, one consolation, one reward, one satisfaction – the success of the revolution. Night and day he must have but one thought, one aim – merciless destruction. Striving cold-bloodedly and indefatigably toward this end, he must be prepared to destroy himself and to destroy with his own hands everything that stands in the path of the revolution.

7. The nature of the true revolutionary excludes all sentimentality, romanticism, infatuation, and exaltation. All private hatred and revenge must also be excluded. Revolutionary passion, practiced at every moment of the day until it becomes a habit, is to be employed with cold calculation. At all times, and in all places, the revolutionary must obey not his personal impulses, but only those which serve the cause of the revolution.

The Relations of the Revolutionary toward his Comrades
8. The revolutionary can have no friendship or attachment, except for those who have proved by their actions that they, like him, are dedicated to revolution. The degree of friendship, devotion and obligation toward such a comrade is determined solely by the degree of his usefulness to the cause of total revolutionary destruction.

9. It is superfluous to speak of solidarity among revolutionaries. The whole strength of revolutionary work lies in this. Comrades who possess the same revolutionary passion and understanding should, as much as possible, deliberate all important matters together and come to unanimous conclusions. When the plan is finally decided upon, then the revolutionary must rely solely on himself. In carrying out acts of destruction, each one should act alone, never running to another for advice and assistance, except when these are necessary for the furtherance of the plan.

10. All revolutionaries should have under them second- or third-degree revolutionaries – i.e., comrades who are not completely initiated. These should be regarded as part of the common revolutionary capital placed at his disposal. This capital should, of course, be spent as economically as possible in order to derive from it the greatest possible profit. The real revolutionary should regard himself as capital consecrated to the triumph of the revolution; however, he may not personally and alone dispose of that capital without the unanimous consent of the fully initiated comrades.

11. When a comrade is in danger and the question arises whether he should be saved or not saved, the decision must not be arrived at on the basis of sentiment, but solely in the interests of the revolutionary cause. Therefore, it is necessary to weigh carefully the usefulness of the comrade against the expenditure of revolutionary forces necessary to save him, and the decision must be made accordingly.

The Relations of the Revolutionary toward Society
12. The new member, having given proof of his loyalty not by words but by deeds, can be received into the society only by the unanimous agreement of all the members.

13. The revolutionary enters the world of the State, of the privileged classes, of the so-called civilization, and he lives in this world only for the purpose of bringing about its speedy and total destruction. He is not a revolutionary if he has any sympathy for this world. He should not hesitate to destroy any position, any place, or any man in this world. He must hate everyone and everything in it with an equal hatred. All the worse for him if he has any relations with parents, friends, or lovers; he is no longer a revolutionary if he is swayed by these relationships.

14. Aiming at implacable revolution, the revolutionary may and frequently must live within society while pretending to be completely different from what he really is, for he must penetrate everywhere, into all the higher and middle-classes, into the houses of commerce, the churches, and the palaces of the aristocracy, and into the worlds of the bureaucracy and literature and the military, and also into the Third Division and the Winter Palace of the Czar.

15. This filthy social order can be split up into several categories. The first category comprises those who must be condemned to death without delay. Comrades should compile a list of those to be condemned according to the relative gravity of their crimes; and the executions should be carried out according to the prepared order.

16. When a list of those who are condemned is made, and the order of execution is prepared, no private sense of outrage should be considered, nor is it necessary to pay attention to the hatred provoked by these people among the comrades or the people. Hatred and the sense of outrage may even be useful insofar as they incite the masses to revolt. It is necessary to be guided only by the relative usefulness of these executions for the sake of revolution. Above all, those who are especially inimical to the revolutionary organization must be destroyed; their violent and sudden deaths will produce the utmost panic in the government, depriving it of its will to action by removing the cleverest and most energetic supporters.

17. The second group comprises those who will be spared for the time being in order that, by a series of monstrous acts, they may drive the people into inevitable revolt.

18. The third category consists of a great many brutes in high positions, distinguished neither by their cleverness nor their energy, while enjoying riches, influence, power, and high positions by virtue of their rank. These must be exploited in every possible way; they must be implicated and embroiled in our affairs, their dirty secrets must be ferreted out, and they must be transformed into slaves. Their power, influence, and connections, their wealth and their energy, will form an inexhaustible treasure and a precious help in all our undertakings.

19. The fourth category comprises ambitious office-holders and liberals of various shades of opinion. The revolutionary must pretend to collaborate with them, blindly following them, while at the same time, prying out their secrets until they are completely in his power. They must be so compromised that there is no way out for them, and then they can be used to create disorder in the State.

20. The fifth category consists of those doctrinaires, conspirators, and revolutionists who cut a great figure on paper or in their cliques. They must be constantly driven on to make compromising declarations: as a result, the majority of them will be destroyed, while a minority will become genuine revolutionaries.

21. The sixth category is especially important: women. They can be divided into three main groups. First, those frivolous, thoughtless, and vapid women, whom we shall use as we use the third and fourth category of men. Second, women who are ardent, capable, and devoted, but whom do not belong to us because they have not yet achieved a passionless and austere revolutionary understanding; these must be used like the men of the fifth category. Finally, there are the women who are completely on our side – i.e., those who are wholly dedicated and who have accepted our program in its entirety. We should regard these women as the most valuable or our treasures; without their help, we would never succeed.

The Attitude of the Society toward the People
22. The Society has no aim other than the complete liberation and happiness of the masses – i.e., of the people who live by manual labor. Convinced that their emancipation and the achievement of this happiness can only come about as a result of an all-destroying popular revolt, the Society will use all its resources and energy toward increasing and intensifying the evils and miseries of the people until at last their patience is exhausted and they are driven to a general uprising.

23. By a revolution, the Society does not mean an orderly revolt according to the classic western model – a revolt which always stops short of attacking the rights of property and the traditional social systems of so-called civilization and morality. Until now, such a revolution has always limited itself to the overthrow of one political form in order to replace it by another, thereby attempting to bring about a so-called revolutionary state. The only form of revolution beneficial to the people is one which destroys the entire State to the roots and exterminated all the state traditions, institutions, and classes in Russia.

24. With this end in view, the Society therefore refuses to impose any new organization from above. Any future organization will doubtless work its way through the movement and life of the people; but this is a matter for future generations to decide. Our task is terrible, total, universal, and merciless destruction.

25. Therefore, in drawing closer to the people, we must above all make common cause with those elements of the masses which, since the foundation of the state of Muscovy, have never ceased to protest, not only in words but in deeds, against everything directly or indirectly connected with the state: against the nobility, the bureaucracy, the clergy, the traders, and the parasitic kulaks. We must unite with the adventurous tribes of brigands, who are the only genuine revolutionaries in Russia.

26. To weld the people into one single unconquerable and all-destructive force – this is our aim, our conspiracy, and our task.