China Construciton Bank Corp
 
China Construction /Bank Corp,0 > established from China Construction 
- > 1954

wholly state owned bank

- assumed commercial banking structutes

joint stock commercial bank
Yangtze River, Pearl River, Bohai

Mr. Tian Guoli
Chairman, Executive Director
Mr. Liu Guiping
Vice Chairman, Executive Director, President
Mr. Zhang Gengsheng
Executive Director, Executive Vice President
Ms. Feng Bing
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Zhu Hailin
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Zhang Qi
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Tian Bo
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Xia Yang
Non-Executive Director
Ms. Anita Fung Yuen Mei
Independent Non-Executive Director
Sir Malcolm Christopher McCarthy
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Carl Walter
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Kenneth Patrick Chung
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Graeme Wheeler
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Michel Madelain
Independent Non-Executive Director

All recent hires, served at various other banks, biology degrees, financing degrees, management sciences dfrom nanjin

Banks are China;s financial system
State controlled banks are the economy

MOF bonds
PBOC Bills
Inter-bank Loans
Non Bank Loans
Corporate Loans
Retail


Tanzania - > Eric Whitehead vacationing in communist countries

Days Inn motel in pyongyang
Mondays there's no food in Pyongyang



Malcolm -> Oxford

Carl -> Standord
REd Capitalism: The Fragile Financial foundations of China's Extraordinary rise

State Net worth- the state sector approaching bankruptcy in china

Carl Walter - says nobody knows anything going on outside the country

-> He's got such a case of hubris, you;ve got hong kong, trade war with america, organ harvesting(?)

--> trade war, hong kong, an economy thats bumping slowly down, debt problem, europe people getting upset, tariffs tearing the companies apart, the resorts in the south china sea

--> Islands becoming aircraft carriers

Banking system in china is 47% of world's GDP

- 134 banks in China
- all of the banks, wealth management products, fund local things, borrow interbank market, supprot local asset management companies

- everybody knows the emperor

wealth management products:
- move bad loans off the bank balance sheets, in the post global financial crisis. They want banks to have better mpl ratio (Marketplace lending). 
They're a fund, made up of non standard loans, regular loans, government loans, and sold to retail customers, they're supposed to be off the balance sheet.

They're a yield product. 

Sounds like the structured investment vehicles or conduits -> US banks got in trouble in 2007

banks would collect the income, 
they didn't report the assets so leverage looked great,
others collected incomes 

once the assets turned bad

these are just bank balance sheets
stop guaranteeing them.

Everybody believes 
Tremendous amount of moral hazard
When the loans dont go

The govt says nothing can be allowed to fail, 

you cannot expect china to open up its capital account.
Once they start loosening up on the capital account, $ flows out like a son of a gun!

The balloon
When is denoument?
No way in the world any capital account is getting opened up!

-> They don't want to give anyone ideas

Hong Kong to Taiwan -> Madame Tai will probs get re-elected

They spend 

Carl is it possible this is all a mirage?

-> The CIA -> 

- Chinese system works - it is a consideration and the senior guys in the party goes on in their tutorial unit
Not based on telling the truth

In 2008, christine wong

-> go into the provinces, 

growth is slowing
-> Turn on the spigots
China is going to push for another giant stimulus. 

-> Banking system is largest in the world
They're confederations, They're not managed
The provincial banks -> They run the show

The head offices manage credit risk

There's no view at the top

No subsidiaries, no transparency

The guys in NY knew what was going on in Beijing-> 

Centrally planning -> without central plannig

No budget

Shareholding banks -> Into reality, no deposits, 
-> Big 5 state banks have the deposits

So Carl, 
most of the banking system isn't how we know it. 
Our banks take deposits, and make loans.
Entities that buy bonds, and leverage via the wholesale marketer or the repo market

Bond fund that's using a lot of short term leverage
- In 2008, when they did the stimulus, came from the State Banks, SEOs, local govts, 

A loan has much bigger hit than bond
- you have a higher interest 

-Lower cost in capital
- we are so ignorant about other countries


Green zone in Baghdad




Carl Walter- politics and Russian language 

● drafting strategic development plans, supervising and assessing implementation thereof;
● reviewing annual operational plans and fixed assets investment budgets;
● reviewing the implementation of annual operational plans and fixed assets investment budgets;
● evaluating the coordinated development of various businesses;
● reviewing material restructuring and re-organisation plans;
● reviewing significant investment and financing projects of the Bank;
● exercising the power of equity investment, IT planning, capital adequacy ratio management and other matters within the scope of the Board’s authorisation; and
● other duties and powers authorised by the Board.

Why would Carl Walter, an indpendent non-executive director, advisor to the Executive direcor, shittalk the company he works for?

In the first quarter of 2020, the spread of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) accelerated across the world, and had a major impact on the global economy and finance. In China, the banking sector is faced with increasing uncertainties in its operations. CCB has bravely taken on this external challenge, earnestly assuming its responsibility as one of the leading banks in the country, working hard to support the epidemic prevention and control and to assist in the country’s overall social and economic development. CCB has offered targeted and effective financial support for the resumption of work and production, leveraged the results of “Three Strategies” in a more intensive manner, and explored innovative models and approaches to secure results.

These companies may be strong arms of the state-- channels through which the state enacts policy, through incentivization, rather than force.

-> CCB introduced overseas emergency aid, purhcased and odnated anti-epidemic medical supplies

x

http://www.ccb.com/en/investorv3/biographiesofdirectors/biogofdirectors.html?ptId=2&ctId=3&gtId=2

https://aparc.fsi.stanford.edu/people/carl_walter - carl walter
https://fsi-live.s3.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/s3fs-public/Walter_presentation_with_opening_slide.pdf - Carl walters talk on china

Deloitte on MPL: https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/uk/Documents/financial-services/deloitte-uk-fs-marketplace-lending.pdf


more from carl walter: https://thesoundingline.com/carl-walter-china-will-never-open-capital-markets/

http://en.ccb.com/en/newccbtoday/v3/whatsnew/20200428_1588080638.html

Th
